So, we have been talking so far only about function components.
That used to be a very interesting and distinct word in the React world.
And we've moved so far towards function components that we don't even remember class components.
However, they are still there. They're not deprecated.
And there is one use case, as far as I can tell, where you can only do it with a class component.
And that is error boundaries.
So, what happens if, let's say, our past lazy.jsx had an error with its API request and it was an uncaught error,
it would just bubble up to the top of the app and crash the app, right?
As you've seen several times happen in our app where it just says, like,
I give up, the whole thing crashed, right?
There's a thing called error boundaries that allow you to, like, catch those errors
and, like, you know, prevent it from crashing your app.
And you can only do it with class components.
So, I'm kind of taking this as a dual opportunity to teach you error boundaries,
which, frankly, I don't really write too much myself because there is React error boundary.
This component here, written by a member of the, I think he's an ex-member of the React core team.
I don't think Brian works there anymore, but he used to.
He made a component that just does this for you.
So, generally speaking, I'm going to recommend that you just use this
and not write them yourself unless you need to.
That's not going to stop me from teaching you how to write it yourself, though.
And the reason being is I want you to see a class component
because if you are going to hop into a company that's been writing React for a decade,
you're definitely going to see some class components laying around
because this used to be the only way to write React.
Function components are a result of, I don't know, probably six years ago at this point
where they were very first introduced, right?
And over time, they've become so popular and hooks made it
so that you actually don't ever need class components ever anymore.
Let's talk about class components.
Number one, no hooks.
Cannot use hooks with class components.
Just kind of sear that in your brain because you're going to be tempted to, but you can't.
So, for example, if you made a custom hook like a used pizza of the day,
it is not usable with a class component.
Now, you can kind of hack it.
What you do is you make a function component, you run the hook,
and then you pass it into a class component as a prop, right?
So you can kind of cheat a little bit, which you may need to,
but inside of a class component, you can never use a hook.
So there's no state, there's no use state, there's no use effect.
It has its own set of APIs for doing that.
So let's just start writing one.
I think that's probably kind of the easiest way to do it.
I want you to make a new file here, and it's going to be called errorboundary.jsx.
Yeah, they're in this like weird state where they're not recommended,
but they're not deprecated, and I don't really understand that.
Like, either just say like we're going to maintain both of them,
or say we're just deprecating one of them, right?
I don't know.
But I'm not in charge.
No one asked me.
So we're going to import component from React,
and we're going to do this thing, say class errorboundary extends component.
Somewhere in chat right now, there's a Java developer just getting really excited,
just pumped about what we're doing here,
and everyone else is like, what's going on, right?
And just down here at the bottom, we're going to export default errorboundary.
I actually like class components.
I don't write them anymore because no one does.
But there actually used to be a React function
because you do like react.create class like this,
and then you would give it an object, and it would look a lot like this.
This was the original way of writing React, years and years and years ago.
If you look at like, complete Android React V2, right?
This is all taught with create class.
This was my favorite API.
Don't tell anyone that.
This is just between you and me.
But I really liked that, and I kind of miss it.
You know, like that Wolverine meme of him stroking a picture?
That's me in create class.
I do that with the docs.
All right.
So state equals, we're going to give it some amount of default state.
And by default, it has no error.
By the way, this is just a normal ES6 class or ES2015 class.
So nothing special here.
This is just React using JavaScript classes.
Okay.
It's got a weird thing called a static method.
Again, if you're a Java developer, you're just pumped about life.
You're just like, ready to roll here.
Everyone else is like, I don't understand why are you writing Java in my JavaScript.
A static method, so if you have like a class here, you can say error.errorBoundary.getDerivedStateFrom.
And like it works directly on the uninstantiated class, right?
As opposed to everything else is an instant method.
So you have to say const eb equals new error boundary.
And then if we have something here like lol, right, then you can call eb.lol, right?
It happens on the thing that you nude up.
Whereas something that is static is called directly on the uninstantiated class.
If you're looking at me like I don't know or care about the difference, acceptable.
That's fine.
But I just wanted to tell you the difference of what the static is, right?
The reason why they do this is because when it hits an error,
it's going to call this error boundary function so that it can get the proper state of it.
Because the thing is going to be busted, right?
Because it caught an error.
And so it has to kind of like rebuild itself.
And it does that with this getDerivedStateFrom error.
That's where it comes from.
So we're just going to say whenever it hits this, whenever it gets busted,
we just want to make sure that it has this state in here of hasError.
We want that to be set to true, right?
There is no lol function, by the way.
So it's going to go from having a state of hasError false to having an error as true,
whenever it gets busted.
And then you're going to run this function called componentDidCatch.
It's going to catch the error and info.
And here if you had something like send to track.js or sentry or something like that,
you would send it off and log your errors here.
I'm going to show you this sophisticated technology of where I log all of my errors,
which is console.
Console.error.
ErrorBondry caught some stupid error.
I like my tools to tell me that I'm dumb.
It motivates me.
ErrorInfo.
Okay.
And then here's kind of the interesting thing.
Every component, so every React component, class component, has a render function.
Everything else is totally optional, but it must have a render function.
And the render function is like 95% the same thing as just like a normal React component function body.
So here's where you're going to return something.
So if this.state.hasError, then you're going to return your error,
whatever you want to show the user, right?
So you're going to say something like ErrorBondry.
H2.
Uh-oh.
P.
It does an error with this listing or with this page.
And then we'll pull in a link.
Make sure we import that as well from up at the top.
Import link from Tanstack React router.
We're going to send this to just the home page.
And click here to go back to the home page.
Okay.
All right.
So if you have this error boundary wrapping your component,
what do you want it to display if there is no error?
You don't want it to add anything of itself, right?
You just want it to just be a straight-on invisible pass-through, right?
So in that particular case, instead of this one, rather,
you're going to say return just this.props.children.
It's not wrapping it or anything like that.
It's just saying like if I have an error boundary around, you know, my component,
let's make it even simpler and just say an h1 of something like this, right?
If there's no error, be invisible, right?
Don't show me anything, right?
And that's what this does.
This is just saying I'm an invisible pass-through.
Do nothing.
And then if this, for whatever reason, has an error, right, then display this.
Don't do anything with the children, right?
Just display this, and then that's how that works, right?
Okay.
That's it.
That's it for an error boundary.
Just a slight more on class components.
I showed you one of these that are called lifecycle methods.
So before we had effects, right, where you can kind of use effect
to affect different parts of the component lifecycle.
This had very strict named parts of the lifecycle,
so you could do something like component did mount, right?
And this would be like, you know, when we do use effect
and give it an empty array so it only runs once, right?
That's what component did mount does, right?
Or component will unmount.
This is like that returned function from a use effect, right?
It runs once at the end.
Or if you wanted to do, whereas component, there's component should update,
not the one I'm looking for, component did update.
That's what I'm looking for.
This is like an effect that's rendering again and again based on like,
remember when we were looking like pizza size, right,
where we were having it run every time pizza size ran, right?
Component did update runs every single time the component changes,
like the state changes, right?
The other thing I'll just mention kind of briefly,
there's also a constructor.
That's also something that you should know.
If you ever have to do something when the component is very first created,
you have to put in a constructor,
and you have to do this thing called, you have to pass this up to React.
And the way you do that is you pass it to the super,
the class that's above it, which is the component.
So you take the props in and you have to pass that to React.
That's what the super props things does.
Why I'm kind of grateful I don't have to teach this anymore is because
you have to learn a lot about this.
And if you've ever done a JavaScript interview,
people love to talk about what this is, right?
And like really the big problem here is like if I do something like,
let's call this function, I don't know, celebrate error.
Okay, and I say this dot set state, celebrate error,
or something like that, celebration.
Okay, and I want to put this like every time that you click on this,
on click equals this dot celebrate error.
This is not going to work yet, which sucks, right?
Why?
Because what is this here?
Your answer to that question should be,
I don't know, Brian, why are you asking this question, right?
And the answer, I think it's undefined, or I don't know.
Or something, right?
Or like window.
But it's not what you would expect it to be.
So you have to go do something really silly,
like this dot celebrate error equals this dot celebrate error dot bind this.
And then this will actually bind the context so that this will be correct.
Or you can get extra silly and you can say,
celebrate error equals function.
And you have to use an arrow function like this.
Now, why does this work?
It's because arrow functions have a different context setting methodology
than normal functions.
It's lexical, I think is the term that they use for it.
Or it's the other way around, I can never keep them straight.
But it's where it's written, not where it's called,
whereas these functions, the context is set where it's invoked,
not where it's created.
Again, if you're looking at me like, am I speaking Chinese?
I might be.
I actually don't know, right?
But I'm just kind of trying to survey the land of where the landmines are here.
And so just be aware that you have to get into the weeds of what this is.
I also see here that I called this dot set state.
This is a React functionality for class components.
This doesn't exist, obviously, on function components.
But this is how, this is what it uses instead of use state, right?
You do this dot set state and then you change the state.
And this will be a massive object of all of the state, right?
As opposed to having one hook for every single piece of state that you have,
you got one big old object.
And so, for example, right here you can see that I have has error.
That's some state on here.
This won't overwrite it because it does an object merge between the two.
So just be aware of that.
Last thing here is if you want to reference the props here,
you just say console dot log like this dot props dot lol.
Like whatever you would normally get props here, right?
Instead, you just reference them here under this dot props.
Okay.
That's kind of a whirlwind tour of class components.
Enough, hopefully, that you kind of get the lay of the land that if you have to use them,
you know where everything is.
I've kind of shown you like 95% of them.
Beyond that, everything is kind of the same between class components and function components.
One more thing I was going to show you, I kind of referenced it earlier.
We had to use our custom hook here.
I would do something like function with error boundary with hooks.
And I would do something like const pizza of the day equals use pizza of the day.
And then I would return error boundary with something like this, right?
So you do all of the hooks above it in a function component,
and then you pass them down into the component that way.
Kind of silly, but it does work, right?
You can kind of use the tools and compose them together.